# Pothole-Detection

system is built for aiding the visually impaired people. This system uses a mono camera (Quantam QHM 495 LM) mounted on white cane which performs pothole detection in the path of the user and alerts the user by audio output of the same. The aim was to build a fully functional prototype for the visually impaired using image processing. Our goal is to produce a fully functional device which could be commercially produced as a useful product for the visually impaired, considering its high efficiency, high accuracy and low cost components used

Basic Image processing is used as visual assistance technology for visually impaired. When a visually impaired person is walking on the road and is met with many obstacles in it’s path, the unevenness of the road or potholes is not easily detected by the user. The system thus helps visually impaired by alerting them through audio output of the pothole in their path which they can avoid and continue on their path.. A monocular camera is used (Quantam QHM 495 LM), Raspberry pi 3B+ is used as a microprocessor. Power bank are all ounted on the white cane. Python is used as programming language as python offers vast array of libraries in computer vision domain. OpenCV (Open Computer Vision) is major library for image processing. The image is initially read from the usb camera facing downward and sent to the raspberry pi the image is then processed and edges and contours around the potholes are drawn. Once pothole detected it is alarmed to the user through earphones and the user is alerted about the pothole in it’s way.

